Release 6.33.0 changelog (beta) (#9894)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta: CHANGELOG.md

## 6.33.0 (Unreleased)

FEATURES:
* **New Data Source:** `google_memcache_instance` ([#9864](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9864))
* **New Resource:** `google_bigtable_logical_view` ([#9876](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9876))
* **New Resource:** `google_bigtable_materialized_view` ([#9862](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9862))
* **New Resource:** `google_os_config_v2_policy_orchestrator_for_folder` ([#9841](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9841))

IMPROVEMENTS:

> * beyondcorp: Added `upstreams` fields to `google_beyondcorp_application` resource ([#9890](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9890))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* beyondcorp: added `upstreams` fields to `google_beyondcorp_application` resource ([#9890](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9890))
```

> * compute: Added fields like `raw_key`, `rsa_encrypted_key`, `kms_key_service_account` to all relevant resources on `google_compute_instance_template` and `google_compute_region_instance_template` ([#9880](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9880))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* compute: added fields `raw_key`, `rsa_encrypted_key`, `kms_key_service_account` to `google_compute_instance_template` and `google_compute_region_instance_template` ([#9880](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9880))
```

* compute: added `disk_id` to `google_compute_region_disk` resource ([#9855](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9855))
* compute: marked `location` field as required in `google_compute_interconnect` resource ([#9865](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9865))
* container: added `data_cache_count` to `ephemeral_storage_local_ssd_config` for `google_container_node_pool` ([#9851](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9851))

> * container: added update for `gvnic` to `google_container_node_pool` ([#9834](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9834))

Author: 6.32.0 feature is already removed (since it will go in that one)

* dataplex: added `notification_report` field to `google_dataplex_datascan` resource ([#9857](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9857))

> * dns: added `target_name_servers.domainName` to resource`google_dns_managed_zone ` (beta) ([#9832](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9832))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* dns: added `target_name_servers.domainName` to resource`google_dns_managed_zone ` ([#9832](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9832))
```

* gkehub: added `configmanagement.config_sync.deployment_overrides` field to `google_gke_hub_feature_membership` resource ([#9828](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9828))

> * identityplatform: Added `response_type` field to `google_identity_platform_oauth_idp_config` ([#9856](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9856))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* identityplatform: added `response_type` field to `google_identity_platform_oauth_idp_config` ([#9856](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9856))
```

> * netapp: added `custom_performance_enabled`, `total_throughput_mibps`, and `total_iops` fields to `google_netapp_storage_pool` resource (beta) ([#9872](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9872))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* netapp: added `custom_performance_enabled`, `total_throughput_mibps`, and `total_iops` fields to `google_netapp_storage_pool` resource ([#9872](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9872))
```

* networkservices: added `metadata` field to `google_networkservices_lbtrafficextension` resource ([#9849](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9849))

> * secretmanager: added `tags` field to `google_secret_manager_secret` to allow setting tags for secrets at creation time ([#9850](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9850))

Author: Remove when revert is done

Reviewer 2: FYI, revert was just done with https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/pull/13786

> * secretmanager: added `tags` field to `google_secret_manager_secret` to allow setting tags for secrets at creation time ([#9850](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9850))

Author: ```suggestion
```

* sql: added output-only field `dns_names` to `google_sql_database_instance` resource ([#9879](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9879))

> * storage: added new fields `time_created` and `updated` in `google_storage_bucket` ([#9877](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9877))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* storage: added new fields `time_created` and `updated` in `google_storage_bucket` resource ([#9877](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9877))
```

* storagetransfer: added `transfer_spec.aws_s3_data_source.managed_private_network` field to `google_storage_transfer_job` resource ([#9886](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9886))

BUG FIXES:

> * alloydb: stopped diffs when `google_alloydb_instance.network_config` is not specified as the API newly returns a value. Removing the field from config will no longer create a diff and will preserve the current value ([#9881](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9881))

Reviewer: consider rephrasing

* clouddeploy: allowed sending empty block for `rollback` field  in  `google_clouddeploy_automation` resource. ([#9878](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9878))
* compute: fixed an issue preventing `terms.priority` from being set to priority value 0 in `google_compute_router_route_policy` resource ([#9830](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9830))

> * securesourcemanager: increased default timeouts on `google_secure_source_manager_instance` operations to 120m from 60m. Operations could take longer than an hour. ([#9868](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9868))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* securesourcemanager: increased default timeouts on `google_secure_source_manager_instance` operations to 120m from 60m as operations may take longer. ([#9868](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9868))
```

> * sql: replaced the Terraform-based default value for `settings.disk_type` in `google_sql_database_instance` with a server-assigned default, allowing for compatibility with machine types that require `HyperDisk_Balanced` ([#9870](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9870))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* sql: replaced the terraform-based default value for `settings.disk_type` in `google_sql_database_instance` with a server-assigned default, allowing for compatibility with machine types that require `HyperDisk_Balanced` ([#9870](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9870))
```

> * storage: removed extra permission (storage.anywhereCaches.list) required for doing a destroy in `resource_storage_bucket` ([#9842](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9842))

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * workstations: increased default timeouts on `google_workstations_workstation_cluster` operations to 120m from 60m. Operations could take longer than an hour. ([#9867](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9867))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* workstations: increased default timeouts on `google_workstations_workstation_cluster` operations to 120m from 60m as operations may take longer. ([#9867](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9867))
```
